# DNS-collector - Configuration Guide

The configuration of DNS-collector is done through one yaml file named [`config.yml`](https://github.com/dmachard/go-dnscollector/blob/main/config.yml). When the DNS-collector starts, it will look for the config.yml from the current working directory. A typical [configuration in pipeline](./running_mode.md) mode includes one or more collectors to receive DNS traffic and several loggers to process the incoming data. 

>  You can explore a list of configuration [`examples`](examples.md).

Below, you will find the global settings:
- [Trace](#trace)
- [Server identity](#server-identity)
- [Pid file](#pid-file)
- [Telemetry](#telemetry)

## Trace

Enable logging to capture detailed information, such as debug and error messages generated by the application.

### Options:

- `verbose`: (boolean) debug informations, if turned on, log some applications messages
- `filename`: (string) filename is the file to write logs to.
- `max-size`: (integer) maximum size in megabytes of the log file it gets rotated
- `max-backups`: (integer) maximum number of old log files to retain
- `log-malformed`: (boolean) log malformed packet

### Example Configuration:

```yaml
global:
  trace:
    verbose: true
    log-malformed: false
    filename: ""
    max-size: 10
    max-backups: 10
```

### Sample Log Output:

```bash
INFO: 2022/06/25 20:54:18.173239 main - version 0.0.0
INFO: 2022/06/25 20:54:18.173271 main - config loaded...
INFO: 2022/06/25 20:54:18.173277 main - starting dns-collector...
....
INFO: 2022/06/25 20:54:18.174256 [dtap] dnstap collector - running in background...
INFO: 2022/06/25 20:54:18.174286 [dtap] dnstap collector - is listening on [::]:6000
```

## Server Identity

Set the server identity name. If this field is left empty, the hostname will be used as the identity.

Example Configuration:

```yaml
global:
  server-identity: "dns-collector"
```

## Worker Settings

The `interval-monitor` in second(s) is used to count every XX second the number of in/out packets.

The `buffer-size` settings enable to adjust the size of the buffer before discard additional packets. If you encounter the warning message buffer is full, xxx packet(s) dropped, consider increasing this parameter to prevent message drops.
  
Example Configuration:

```yaml
global:
  worker:
    interval-monitor: 10
    buffer-size: 8192
```

## PID file

Specify the path for the DNS-Collector PID file. By default, this setting is empty.

Example Configuration:

```yaml
global:
  pid-file: "/path/to/your/pidfile.pid"
```

## Telemetry

Enable and configure telemetry for monitoring purposes.

Example Configuration:

```yaml
global:
  telemetry:
    enabled: false
    web-path: "/metrics"
    web-listen: ":9165"
    prometheus-prefix: "dnscollector_exporter"
    tls-support: false
    tls-cert-file: ""
    tls-key-file: ""
    client-ca-file: ""
    basic-auth-enable: false
    basic-auth-login: admin
    basic-auth-pwd: changeme
```
